----------Miscellaneous------------

Express Router : Express Routers are a way to organize your express application such that our primary app.js file does not become bloated.

     const router = express.Router() // create new router object

-------------Cookies/Web Cookies/HTTP Cookies----------------
Cookies are small pieces of data stored on the client (browser) side, and they can be used to save user information between page requests.
Cookies are ideal for small, non-sensitive information such as:

User preferences (like language or theme)
Keeping users logged in by storing authentication tokens
Tracking visits or actions on a website


HTTP Cookies are small block of data created by a web server while a user is browsing a website and placed on the user's computer or other 
device by the user's web browser.

Function of Cookies : 
    Session management - store unique session identifier
                         To keep track of which user is assigned to which shoping cart 

    Personalization -  remember information about the user in order to relevant content over time to that user

    Tracking - track users web browsing habits

Kisi website pe koi ek bar darkmode on krne kr dene k bad koi aur page pe gte hai to wha v dark mode he hota hai becoz of Cookies

Signed Cookies finds that if our cookies are tampered or not.

-------------------State-------------------

Stateful protocol : Stateful protocol requires server to save the status and session information
 eg... file transfer protocol

 Stateless protocol : does not require the server to reation the server information or status
 eg... http 

 Understand with transactin one with cash whihc keeps no record and other with UPI that keeps record

 ---------------Express session-----------
 An attempt to make our session Stateful.

Key Differences Between Cookies and Sessions:
-- Cookies store data on the client side (browser), while sessions store data on the server side.
-- Sessions use a session ID stored in a cookie to link the client to the session data on the server.
-- Sessions are more secure for sensitive information since the data is stored server-side


Express can help save small pieces of information in the browser using cookies, and it can also manage sessions to keep track of user interactions over time.

Cookies are good for client-side data storage, but they're not suitable for storing sensitive information like passwords or session data.

----------- Sessions:-------------
Sessions provide a more secure way to store information about a user for the duration of their interaction with the website.
The session data is stored server-side, while a session ID is stored in a cookie on the client-side. 
This way, sensitive data doesn't reside in the browser, making sessions more secure than cookies for storing confidential data.

With sessions, you can store:

User login states
Shopping cart contents
Data that should persist between pages for a single user

-------------connect-flash----------------------
connect-flash is a middleware for Express that allows you to store temporary messages in the session and display them to the 
user on the next page load. 
These messages, commonly referred to as "flash messages," are typically used for user notifications, 

such as:
-- Success messages after completing an action (e.g., "User created successfully")
-- Error messages when an operation fails (e.g., "Invalid login credentials")
-- Informational messages (e.g., "Please login to access this page")
-- Flash messages are temporary and will disappear after they have been displayed to the user. This is useful for providing feedback about actions, like form submissions or redirects.

----------Authentication and Authorization------------------

Authentication:
What it is: The process of verifying a user's identity.
How it works: Typically involves checking credentials like a username and password. Other methods include multi-factor authentication (MFA), biometrics, or tokens.
Purpose: Ensures that the person accessing the system is who they claim to be.
Example: Logging into a website using a password.

Authorization:
What it is: The process of determining what resources or actions a user is allowed to access after authentication.
How it works: Based on the user's role or permissions, the system decides what data or functionalities they are allowed to access.
Purpose: Ensures that authenticated users only access what they're permitted to.
Example: After logging in, a regular user can view their profile, but only an admin can delete other users' accounts.

-------------Storing password->hashing->salting------------------------

Hashing:
What it is: A one-way cryptographic transformation of a password into a fixed-size string (called a hash). Once hashed, the password cannot be directly reversed.
Purpose: Ensures passwords are not stored in plaintext. Even if the database is compromised, the original passwords are not exposed.
Example: password123 → 5f4dcc3b5aa765d61d8327deb882cf99 (MD5 hash)

Salting:
What it is: Adding a unique, random string (salt) to each password before hashing it.
Purpose: Prevents rainbow table attacks, where precomputed hashes are used to crack passwords. Even if two users have the same password, their hashed values will be different because of unique salts.

Process:
Salt: Generate a random salt (e.g., xyz123).
Hash + Salt: Combine the password and salt (password123xyz123), then hash them together.
Store: Save both the salt and the hash in the database.

